
---
title: About the AICell Lab
summary: The AICell Lab is a research group led by Wei Ouyang, focuses on building AI systems for cell and molecular biology.
tags:
  - AI
date: '2023-01-01T00:00:00Z'

# Optional external URL for project (replaces project detail page).
external_link: ''

image:
  caption: "Generated by OpenAI DALL.E with text: A digital biological cell powered by robotics and AI"
  focal_point: Smart

links:

url_code: ''
url_pdf: ''
url_slides: ''
url_video: ''
slides: 
---

The AICell Lab is an interdisciplinary group which focuses on building AI systems for cell and molecular biology.

We would like to take the grand challenge of modeling the human cell and building human cell simulators using powerful AI models. It is an ambitious goal that requires profound innovations in not only data analysis and modeling, but also in data generation. We believe it is crucial for us to build autonomous systems to acquire massive amounts of high quality data that are suitable to train AI models. To this front, we would like to build a fully automated imaging farm which consists of multiple microscopes, robotic arms, liquid handling robots and automatic incubators. Importantly, we run AI models in real-time to augment the microscopy views, generating artificial labels and annotations. It also allows generating feedback signals to or example, control the cell growth, differentiation, and drive the microscope to change field-of-views, illumination power and other experimental conditions in order to optimize the phototoxicity and capture rare events in live cells.

Overall, the long-term goal of the group is to create large-scale whole human cell models trained on existing multi-omics datasets and new data generated by the imaging farm. We envision the human cell models have a great potential in *in-silico* cell experimentation, drug discovery and contributing to a holistic and systematic understanding of the human cell.


## Mission Statement of AICell Lab

The mission of the AICell Lab is to advance the frontiers of cell and molecular biology by developing cutting-edge artificial intelligence systems. We are committed to tackling the grand challenge of modeling the human cell by constructing robust and dynamic human cell simulators powered by the latest AI technology. Our interdisciplinary approach emphasizes innovation in data generation, analysis, and modeling to facilitate the autonomous acquisition of high-quality data that enriches AI training and enhances biological understanding.

We strive to pioneer a novel era of data-driven biology where fully automated imaging farms—boasting an array of microscopes, robotic arms, and sophisticated equipment—are harmonized through real-time AI analysis. This integration is poised to revolutionize cell imaging, allowing for unprecedented artificial labeling, annotations, and live-cell experimental control. By continually refining our AI models and data acquisition methods, AICell Lab aims to minimize phototoxicity, capture rare cellular events, and streamline cell growth and differentiation processes.

## Vision Statement of AICell Lab

At AICell Lab, our vision is to be at the forefront of creating comprehensive whole human cell models that can simulate intricate biological processes and disease mechanisms. Our pursuit is rooted in the belief that through large-scale models trained on diverse and expansive multi-omics datasets—as well as data meticulously captured by our state-of-the-art automated imaging farm—we can unlock transformative potentials in in-silico experimentation.

We envision a future where our human cell models become instrumental in accelerating drug discovery, enhancing the precision of medical therapies, and providing a holistic understanding of the human cell. Our goal is to pave the way for innovative scientific explorations and breakthroughs that will significantly impact health sciences, bioinformatics, and beyond. Through collaborative efforts, rigorous research, and a relentless pursuit of knowledge, AICell Lab is dedicated to bringing the digital and biological realms together to better humanity's future.
